000:
Catch: Icecube slides off if there's no blocker
Insight: Blocker blocks cube
Rating: 6
Good to start. Understand the game.

002:
Catch: If there is no blocker, the icecube will not hit the target
Insight: None
Rating: 5
Again. Very simple. But I think it does introduce you to the catch.

001:
Catch: If you push the block forward, you get push backward as well.
Insight: None
Rating: 9
I really like it.

003:
Catch/Learning: You have to slide across the path you created to get to places you want.
Insight: You can slide across slippery. Learn the pattern of the available ground.
Rating: 4
Fairly simple. But it's good. But there's always only one thing to do.

004:
Catch: None
Insight: None
Rating: 4
No catch. But decently interesting level.
It's alright. But it seems like in all places there is only one thing to do
Nothing there that will mislead the player...

005:
Catch: You can push the cube to the target, but still be stuck on ice.
Insight: None
Rating: 5
The catch is nice. But the solution itself is kinda boring.

006:
Catch: introducing furniture.
Insight: Furniture can be moved and it blocks cube
Rating: 3
Yeah. Good enough. as introduction.

007:
Catch: introducing furniture.
Insight: Furniture can be moved and it blocks cube
Rating: 6
Feels very similar to the previous level... Replacable basically. Also it's kinda
"work". I forget the word.

008:
Catch: None
Insight: you need the furniture to be in the correct place to stop your slide, so
you can push the cube.
Rating: 9
Yeah. I quite like it. Forced the player to actually move the furniture in the way
that I designed.

009:
Catch: You can't always easily push a furniture across slippery, because you will
end up getting stuck on the slippery.
Insight: None
Rating: 8
Yeah. The level will likely get you caught. There might be a possibility to do
something a little more clever than the movement that is currently required. But
yeah, lets see.. quite happy though

010:
Catch: None
Insight: cube can block slide of furniture.
Rating: 9
Level is great. Also see how first the cube has to be pushed, only then do we get the
furniture in correct position.

011:
Catch: If you use furniture to stop the cube in the correct place, you might have
difficulty getting there yourself.
Insight: You can use the furniture multiple times.
Rating: 8
It's fine. Semi interesting. Note that this is the first level where the furniture
is not pushed off the map when hit correctly by the cube. Also, the furniture will
trap you if you try to push the block left then up

012:
Catch: Because of the land and slippery, you cant push the furniture to the right
Insight: You can bump the ice into the furniture in order to move it
Rating: 9
I'm quite happy with it. Just discovered the solution. Honestly, it's quite simple
Can probably be moved up a bit. But certainly very interesting. FORCES you to learn

013:
Catch: difficult to move the furniture to the obvious blocking spot. If you do that
there's no way to get off the slippery. Lots of different ways to get stuck. yay
Insight. Use the furniture to set up the cube at the edge of the slippery
Rating: 9

014:
Catch: cube slips
Insight: you need to move the furniture and cube together or you get stuck.
Rating: 8
It's very interesting. But also it kinda solves itself? Like once you get the funrniture
in the correct spot once, after that it's semi automatic. But it's actually really fun.

015:
Catch: none
Insight: Hitting a cube against another causes it to slide. cube acts as blocker
Rating: 6
Does it's role well. Introducing the concept of two cubes.

018:
Catch: It's not possible to get to the square required to push the cube in
Insight: You can use the other cube as a push off
Rating: 8
It's okay.

016:
Catch: There's no way to push the cube in
Insight: When you're sandwiched between cubes, the ground becomes steady.
Rating: 9
It's really quite interesting the way you need to get between the cubes.

019:
Catch: the wall in the middle cannot be accessed for easy win.
Insight: move the cubes around in loops till it's where you need it
Rating: 9
Yeah, it's fun to discover how the cubes push each other around the loops.

017:
Catch: ?
Insight: you need to push the block to the correct place to use it as a pushoff
Rating: 7
It;s okay. I wanted to use just two cubes, but couldn't work it without the furn

020:
Catch: If you push the bottom cube, you get stuck on the ice. Both the cubes look
similar, but have "unique" solutions.
Insight: You need the second cube in the right place so that you're no longer sutck
You have to push the cube the wrong way, before you can push it the correct way.
Rating: 9
It's good. Though both cubes look similar, they have fairly unique solutions, and that's
a lot of fun. Good stuffs.

021:
Needs to be redone. Idea was implemented into 020

022:
Catch: introducing reflectors
Insight: introducing reflectors
Rating: 4
Boring. But clear. Should be able to come up with a more interesting intro...

023:
Catch: You can't put the reflector where its needed. So you think you need to use
3 reflectors.
Insight: you can use 2 reflectors to push cube to wall. before that you have to set
up the 3rd in correct place.
Rating: 7
Fairly nice. Initial setting pushes towards catch. It's interesting. But also I need
to get a lot better at these games before I can possibly make levels that are truly
challenging.

026:
Catch
Insight: If you put a reflector against a wall, it acts like a blocker
Rating: 7
It's good. I think it guides you fairly well towards solving the problems.

024:
Catch:
Insight: If you put a reflector against a wall, it acts like a blocker
Rating: 9
It's really nice. It forces you to realise the new rule. This is really hard without
knowing the rule though, so I think we should put a level where that is introduced first.

025:
Catch:
Insight: furniture can absorb the energy of the cubes? then you send the furn back to set up
Rating: 8
I'm a little on the fence about that specific mechanic. That a furniture stops a cube but
doesn't transfer the momentum to the next cube. Right now we will keep it in and see.
May be able to sell it with the animations.

027:
Catch: you can get the cube to the correct pos, but can't push in easily
Insight: use the second cube to push off once the first cube is in pos
Rating: 9
I really like it. Just found the solution. feels smart bro. Actually wow. It's quite a
hard level overall. Really need to make sure there's no other simple solution. Hopefully
no other solution at all.

028:
Catch: ?
Insight: ?
Rating: 7
It's a little straightforward what to do. But pushing things again and again in the same
path is also kinda fun. so yeah.

029:
Catch: Since there is a column of ice, we can't easily position the furn
Insight: really move the cubes to move the furn
Rating: 9
Wooow. I literally spent 20 mins just mucking around, and ended up solving it...
It's really quite a hard level.

030:
Catch:
Insight: Once you realise how the cubes have to be at the end it's easy
Rating: 8
Yeah, it's good I think. I don't know how easy it is. Because the answer is fairly clear
once you know how the final arrangements of elements needs to be.

031:
Catch: the river doesnt allow us to park the furn exactly unless we use the outcrop
Insight: Use furn as blocker?
Rating: 8
Should be a little earlier on.
I still like the idea of the river. We haven't explored how having a single outcrop
allows you to move the furn awat from the river.

032:
Catch: Introduce river
Insight: Outcrop in river
Rating: 8
It's good.

033:
Catch: how to get to cube
Insight: it's all a maze.
Rating: 5
It's a concept that needs to be explored. But I don't want it to be unecessarily hard.
